Proposal.md, before:

# Description of the Data

## Content

The data set contains 119390 hotel bookings during the year 2015. Each observation has 32 associated variables that describe the hotel type (`hotel`, `country`, `meal`), the reservation details (`arrival_date_month`, `arrival_date_day_of_month`, `adults`, `assigned_room_type`), and the booking method (`distribution_channel`) among others. An initial review of the data indicates it is unbalanced for example categories such as `country` (PRT - 41%) and `distribution_channel` (Travel Agents / Tour Operators - 82%). No additional variables will be derived for this project. 

## Source and Aknowledgements

The dataset we are using, `Hotel booking demand`, is sourced from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jessemostipak/hotel-booking-demand) by Jesse Mostipak. Originally compiled by Nuno Antonio, Ana Almeida, and Luis Nunes for `Hotel Booking Demand Datasets` in `Data in Brief, Volume 22, February 2019`. Downloaded and cleaned by Thomas Mock and Antoine Bichat for #TidyTuesday during the week of February 11th, 2020.

# Research questions and usage scenario

## Research questions

It is always hard to find a popular place to travel at a time when hotels are available. Our app can help you to find a good time for booking a hotel at your favourite country.

1.  Which day of the month is the busiest day of booking hotels?

2.  Which countries are the busiest in terms of booking hotels?

3.  What is the totel hotel booking number for a specific country in a specific year?

## Usage scenario

As a hotel manager, you log into the hotel booking dashboard to get an overview of your current bookings. You start by looking at the time stamp on the top of the dashboard to ensure that the data is up-to-date.

Next, you examine the data on the country-wise booking counts, which shows a breakdown of bookings based on different countries. You notice that there has been a significant increase in bookings from a particular country, which prompts you to investigate further. You decide to offer a special promotion to this country to attract more bookings.

You also review the hotel-wise booking counts, which shows a breakdown of bookings based on different hotels. You notice that one of your hotels is experiencing low bookings, so you decide to allocate more resources to market that particular hotel to attract more customers.

Overall, the hotel booking dashboard helps you make informed decisions based on real-time data, which can improve your business performance and customer satisfaction.

Commit message:

added persona to the proposal

Proposal.md, after:

# Description of the Data

## Content

The data set contains 119390 hotel bookings during the year 2015. Each observation has 32 associated variables that describe the hotel type (`hotel`, `country`, `meal`), the reservation details (`arrival_date_month`, `arrival_date_day_of_month`, `adults`, `assigned_room_type`), and the booking method (`distribution_channel`) among others. An initial review of the data indicates it is unbalanced for example categories such as `country` (PRT - 41%) and `distribution_channel` (Travel Agents / Tour Operators - 82%). No additional variables will be derived for this project. 

## Source and Aknowledgements

The dataset we are using, `Hotel booking demand`, is sourced from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jessemostipak/hotel-booking-demand) by Jesse Mostipak. Originally compiled by Nuno Antonio, Ana Almeida, and Luis Nunes for `Hotel Booking Demand Datasets` in `Data in Brief, Volume 22, February 2019`. Downloaded and cleaned by Thomas Mock and Antoine Bichat for #TidyTuesday during the week of February 11th, 2020.

# Research questions and usage scenario

## Research questions

It is always hard to find a popular place to travel at a time when hotels are available. Our app can help you to find a good time for booking a hotel at your favourite country.

1.  Which day of the month is the busiest day of booking hotels?
2.  Which countries are the busiest in terms of booking hotels?
3.  What is the totel hotel booking number for a specific country in a specific year?

## Motivation and Purpose
The purpose of this visualization dashboard is to present the hotel booking data for exploratory data analysis (EDA) and predictive purposes. The primary objective of the dashboard is to summarize booking information, including the number of bookings, cancellation rates, average booking value, and other important metrics. This allows users to gain a comprehensive understanding of the data and identify significant patterns and trends. The dashboard also serves as a valuable tool for hotel managers and marketers to make informed decisions regarding pricing, promotions, and inventory management. For instance, the dashboard showcases the most popular countries for bookings, the most frequently booked room types, and the periods with the highest booking rates.

## Target Audience and Persona
A buyer persona is a fictional representation of our ideal customer. It’s comprised of: 
- Demographic factors: Age, genders, geographic location, education level 
- Psychographic factors: What are your buyers’ goals and challenges? What motivates them? 
Buyer Personas are important because it allows us to provide for PEOPLE, not for COMPANIES.

A hypothetical persona of our project is shown below:
![](persona.png)


## Usage scenario

As a hotel manager, you log into the hotel booking dashboard to get an overview of your current bookings. You start by looking at the time stamp on the top of the dashboard to ensure that the data is up-to-date.

Next, you examine the data on the country-wise booking counts, which shows a breakdown of bookings based on different countries. You notice that there has been a significant increase in bookings from a particular country, which prompts you to investigate further. You decide to offer a special promotion to this country to attract more bookings.

You also review the hotel-wise booking counts, which shows a breakdown of bookings based on different hotels. You notice that one of your hotels is experiencing low bookings, so you decide to allocate more resources to market that particular hotel to attract more customers.

Overall, the hotel booking dashboard helps you make informed decisions based on real-time data, which can improve your business performance and customer satisfaction.
